# NeuralNetwork
About: Neural Network Simulation implemented in C to demonstrate the use of parallel programing.

In my CS class, I developed a neural network simulation similarly used in artificial intelligence. Our task was to speed the process of this network by implementing parallel programming.

For this project, I decided to speed up the process where in a single layer, each neuron
computation is done independently and threads are used to split the number of neurons per layer in half. Using a barrier for thread synchronization, I made sure after the computation of half of the neurons in a layer, each thread would have to wait at that point for the other thread to finish its half of the layer before moving onto the next layer.

I created a new structure I labeled thread_arg that has (1) int id of the thread to dictate which half of the neurons it would compute (2) a barrier used for synchronization (3) layer currentLayer to keep track of the currentLayer both threads are working on (4)double ** layerOutputs to store the output of the layer, (5) int layerIndex which provides the index of the layer used to access the index of layerOutputs. The actual ThreadForwardPass mimics the ForwardPassNetworkFF code that occurred within each layer. I simply took the void argument passed and converted it into a thread_arg structure, and accessed all of its variables. From there, I split up the neurons in half by having each thread compute the neuron every 2, alternating each neuron to each thread. In the ForwardPassNetworkFF function, I first created an array of threads and thread arguments, which I would initialize inside the for loop that traverses the different layers. I worked inside the for loop that traversed each layer, and within that loop, I got the current layer and initialized a barrier which both threads would use. I also created another for loop within the first one where I initialized the variables of the thread_arg structure (the only thing that differed between the 2 threads is its id to determine which half of the layer to compute). Within that for loop I also created the thread, calling the function ThreadForwardPass which threads would use and put thread_arg as a void parameter. I created another for loop within the first one that would join the threads and wait for the other thread to finish. I also made sure to destroy the barrier created.
